CS4400: Introduction to Database Systems
Description of SQL Testing Database (Thursday, March 24, 2022)
This database is constructed as an extension to the Company Database as defined in the Elmasri & Navathe
textbook used in class. Chapter 3 of the text gives an extensive description of the initial database tables: employees, 
departments, projects, and dependents. The description below covers the remaining tables.
The employees at the company work in (and sometimes manage) various departments, and work on various projects. 
In an effort to minimize costs, they are offering their employees the opportunity to work from home. Employees must 
select one or the other: either work from home via remote_access, or work in_office.
If they work remotely, then the database must be able to track the employees Internet Protocol (IP address) and the 
user account that they use to logon to the system. The database must also be able to track the different periods that 
they normally access the system to help detect unauthorized access attempts. The periods are stored using the hour
that they logon (i.e., start working using a 24-hour clock based on GMT) and the duration of the session (in hours).
table 1: remote_access
table 2: time_frames
If they work in the office, then the database must be able to track the building and room number of their work office.
table 3: in_office
The employees also work on various projects, and those projects have various combinations of different aspects. 
Some projects require analysis of collected data; some projects require a continuous operational staff; and others 
require maintenance of the hardware and software components.
For projects that have an analysis component, the database must be able to track a title that describes the purpose of 
the data being collected, along with the number of times that the data must be collected each month (i.e., monthly 
frequency) and the amount of data (measured in gigabytes/GB) collected during each event.
table 4: analysis
For projects that have an operations component, the database must be able to track the title that describes the type 
of operation or activity being conducted, along with the number of people needed to conduct the operation. The 
database must also be able to track the different skills that the members of the operational team need to have to 
conduct the operation successfully.
table 5: operations
table 6: operation_skills
For projects that have a maintenance component, the database must be able to track the numerous types of updates, 
fixes and repairs required (monthly) to ensure that the project operates successfully. Some types of maintenance can 
be performed remotely, either using the 'open' web, or more securely via a virtual private network ('vpn'). Other types 
of maintenance must be performed via the 'intranet' in the same physical building, or directly with hands-on contact at 
the affected system (i.e., 'none' as in no remote access) – for example, replacing a failed server or routing component. 
And the cost of each individual maintenance service is also given in U.S. Dollars.
table 7: maintenance
table 8: maintenance_types
All of these projects require funding to succeed. Funding can come from two very different sources: customers and 
budgets. Customers often provide the funds needed to pursue a project, and the database must be able to track the 
customer's company, location and assets (i.e., total available funds). On the other hand, budgets are directed by 
departments, and the database must be able to track which department directs each budget, along with the total 
balance of funds for each budget.
table 9: customer
table 10: budget
As the customers and budgets are used to fund projects some portions of the total funds are allocated for use, and 
the database must be able to track the funds remaining of the allocation along with the amount of funds that are used 
each month (i.e., the usage or "burn" rate).
table 11: fund_source
Finally, the dependents are occasionally offered the opportunity to gain valuable experience with some of the 
departments. The database must be able to track the most recent instance of a dependent interning with a 
department, along with a rating to assess their performance (e.g., from 1 to 10, with 1 representing a "substandard/poor" effort, and 10 representing a "superlative/top-level" effort).
table 12: interns_in